# LaunchpadTechnicalChallenge
Machine learning is a subfield of artificial intelligence that focuses on using data and algorithms to mimic human learning processes and progressively increase accuracy. Traditional coding involves simply giving a set of instructions for the program to follow, but machine learning allows the program to teach and improve itself through experience. To begin, you need data, whether that be numbers, pictures, or sales reports. After collecting this data, you choose a machine learning model, which includes models such as clustering, classification, regression, etc. These models provide a guideline of the training process and depend on the type of task at hand. Next, you supply the data to the program and let it train itself to make predictions or find patterns. The model can later be changed according to how accurate it is. Of course the actual programming for machine learning algorithms is more intricate, but this is the basic idea. These algorithms are made to solve complex problems in a similar method to how humans may solve it, but much faster, and we interact with them in our everyday lives.

An example of machine learning can be found in the apps we use everyday such as Spotify, Netflix and Instagram. All of these apps use machine learning programs to give you recommendations on songs, movies or which accounts you might want to follow. For instance, in Spotify, the data the program could collect would be the genre, artists or mood of the songs you listen to. Using the cluster model in this case, which groups similar types of data, it could find similar songs you would enjoy. This is how the “enhance” feature works, which adds songs to your playlist based on what Spotify thinks you would like. You may also remember when you first began listening to music on Spotify with your new account the recommendations were fairly random and most of the songs were probably not to your liking. This is because at that time Spotify did not have any data to use in order to make their predictions. As you listen to more and more music, the algorithm becomes more and more accurate. The same concept applies to Netflix and Instagram content. This is a very simple application for machine learning, but it can be used in many other instances such as facial recognition, detecting fraud or providing medical diagnostics. 

Although machine learning is extremely useful, there are also certain challenges it faces. This can include having poor quality data, non-representative data, monitoring and maining the results, etc. In the Spotify example for instance, if someone were to listen to a lot of country music on another person’s account, and this person usually listens to rap, the algorithm would be fed a lot of inaccurate data. This could potentially result in a lot of country music recommendations showing up on the Spotify account even though the person who mainly uses the account does not enjoy country music. They will unfortunately have to continue to ignore the recommendations until the algorithm obtains new data from the music the user is listening to and changes its recommendations. 
